In simple terms, when a company wants to build a new software system, it's important that they get input from the people 
who will actually use it. This includes understanding their needs and the tasks they need to perform with the system. 
Sometimes, companies skip this step and try to build the system based on what they think the users want. 
This can lead to a lot of problems because the system may not meet the users' needs.

For example, let's say a company builds a new information system for their employees without getting any input from the employees.
 When they unveil the new system, the employees find it difficult to use and don't like it. 
The company then has to spend more time and money fixing the system to make it work for the employees. 
This delays other projects and causes frustration for everyone involved.

In short, it's important for companies to involve users in the requirements development process from the beginning to 
avoid costly mistakes later on.

This story highlights the importance of involving end-users in the development process from the start. 
Getting user input and feedback can save time, money, and resources in the long run. 
It also helps to ensure that the final product meets the needs and expectations of the users.
Companies should prioritize customer engagement throughout every stage of the project, from the initial planning and design to the 
testing and implementation phases. This will help to identify potential issues early on and give developers the opportunity to 
address them before they become major problems.
By involving end-users in the process, companies can create a more user-friendly system, improve overall customer satisfaction, 
and avoid costly rework or delays.


-------> The expectation gap

When developers create software without involving customers enough, 
there is a high chance that the final product will not meet the actual needs or expectations of the customers.
This creates a gap between what customers really need and what developers deliver.

To avoid this expectation gap, it's important for developers to have frequent interaction with customer representatives. 
This can include things like meetings, interviews, and feedback sessions. By doing this, developers can get a better understanding 
of what the customers want and make sure they are on the right track to meeting those needs.

For example, let's say you work at a restaurant and your boss wants you to design a new ordering system for customers. 
Instead of just coming up with an idea and presenting it to your boss, you could have regular conversations with 
customers to see what features they would like in the new system. You could also create prototypes of the system and get 
feedback from customers to make sure it meets their needs. By doing this, you can minimize the expectation gap and deliver a 
system that customers will actually want to use.


-----> Who is the customer?

Stakeholders are people, groups or organizations that are involved, affected, or can influence a project. 
Customers are one type of stakeholder who benefit from a product directly or indirectly. For example, if a company develops a new software product, 
the customers could be the users of the product or the people who pay for it.

It's important to involve the right stakeholders in a project to make sure all requirements and constraints are understood. 
Sometimes, stakeholders might be missed out, which can cause delays and problems later on. 
For example, if a development team is working on a new software system but forgets to talk to the tax department, they might miss important 
requirements related to tax calculation. This can delay the project by months.

When it comes to developing requirements, business requirements should come from the person who is ultimately accountable for the business value of the product, 
while user requirements should come from the people who will actually use the product. 
If there is a disconnect between the acquiring customers and the end users, this can cause major problems.

Conflicts can arise among different stakeholders in a project. For example, business requirements might reflect organizational strategies 
that are not apparent to users, and users might not want to work with developers who they see as imposing unwanted changes. 
To manage these conflicts, communication strategies can help build buy-in and avoid hard feelings.

In real life, this can apply to many different types of projects. For example, if a company is developing a new website, 
the customers could be the users of the website or the marketing team who pays for its development. 
It's important to involve all the relevant stakeholders to make sure the website meets everyone's needs and objectives.

In order to create a great software product, it's important for the developers and customers (specifically the users of the software) to work together in a partnership. 
This means that they need to communicate well and understand each other's needs and goals. The business analyst is usually the person who leads this collaboration.

Customers have certain expectations or "rights" when working with developers and BAs during the requirements engineering process. 
For example, they have the right to expect that the developers and BAs will understand their business and record their requirements accurately. 
On the flip side, customers also have responsibilities, such as educating the BAs and developers about their business and being specific and 
timely when providing input about requirements.

A real-life example of this partnership might be a company that wants to create a new project management software. 
They would work with a team of developers and BAs to design and build the software. The customers (in this case, project managers and their teams) 
would have the right to expect that the developers and BAs will understand their needs, record their requirements accurately, and provide an 
environment of mutual respect. The customers would also have the responsibility to dedicate time to clarify their requirements 
and make timely decisions about them, as well as respect the developers' assessment of feasibility and cost. 
By working together in this partnership, the team can create a successful project management software that meets the needs of its users.


-----> Requirements Bill of Rights for Software Customers


To expect BAs to speak your language - Customers should expect that BAs will use business terms and avoid technical jargon during requirements discussions. 
For example, if a customer is in the healthcare industry, they would expect the BA to use terms like "patient care" instead of technical terms like "EMR".

To expect BAs to learn about your business and your objectives - Customers should expect BAs to take time to understand their specific business 
needs and how the software fits into their workflow. . Invite them to observe what you and your colleagues do on the job. 
For example, a customer who owns a restaurant would expect the BA to observe their staff's 
work processes and understand their menu offerings before designing a new POS system.

To expect BAs to record requirements in an appropriate form - Customers should expect that the requirements documentation will be clear and easy to understand. 
For example, a customer who runs a retail store would expect the requirements documentation to list all the features and functions that are necessary 
for their point-of-sale system.

To receive explanations of requirements practices and deliverables - Customers should expect the BA to explain the practices being used to develop the software 
and explain each deliverable. For example, a customer would expect the BA to explain what wireframes are and how they are used to visualize the layout of the software.

To change your requirements - Customers should expect that they will have the ability to make changes to the requirements as the project progresses. 
For example, a customer may decide halfway through development that they want to add a new payment method to their e-commerce website.

To expect an environment of mutual respect - Customers should expect the development team to treat them with respect and appreciate their input. 
For example, a customer would expect the developers to listen to their feedback and suggestions without dismissing them.

To hear ideas and alternatives for your requirements and for their solution - Customers should expect the BA to provide suggestions for improvements 
and new capabilities that they may not have considered. For example, a customer would expect the BA to suggest integrating social media sharing into 
their app to increase user engagement.

To describe characteristics that will make the product easy to use - Customers should expect BAs to ask them about quality attributes that make the 
software easier or more pleasant to use. For example, a customer would expect the BA to ask about accessible design features for users with disabilities.

To hear about ways to adjust requirements to accelerate development through reuse - Customers should expect the BA to suggest reusing existing software 
components or avoiding unnecessary customizations to save time and money. For example, a customer would expect the BA to suggest using an existing payment 
gateway integration instead of building a new one from scratch.

To receive a system that meets your functional needs and quality expectations - Customers should expect the final product to meet all their functional 
requirements and quality expectations. For example, a customer who requested a custom CRM system would expect it to have all the necessary features and be 
reliable enough to handle their daily business operations.


-----> Requirements Bill of Responsibilities for Software Customers

Sure, I can explain each of the 10 responsibilities for software customers in an easy-to-understand way with real-life examples.

Responsibility to educate BAs and developers about your business: As a customer, it is your responsibility to help the development team understand your 
business needs and objectives. For example, if you own a retail store, you need to explain to the BA how you want customers to interact with your products 
online and in-store.

Responsibility to dedicate time to provide and clarify requirements: It is important to allocate enough time for requirements elicitation and validation activities. 
For example, if you're working on developing a mobile app, you should be available for interviews and workshops to discuss the features and functionality that will 
be included in the app.

Responsibility to be specific and precise when providing input about requirements: You need to ensure that requirements are clear, specific, and focused. 
For example, instead of asking for "better search functionality" in an e-commerce website, you should specify what kind of searches you want to enable, 
such as searching by category, price range, or brand.

Responsibility to make timely decisions about requirements when asked: You should respond promptly to requests for decision-making related to requirements. 
For example, if the developer asks for your input on which payment gateway to use for your e-commerce website, you should provide a timely response so that 
development can continue without delay.

Responsibility to respect a developer's assessment of the cost and feasibility of requirements: You need to acknowledge that all software 
functionality has a cost, and developers are best suited to estimate those costs. For example, if you ask for a feature that requires significant 
customization or development effort, you need to respect the developer's assessment of whether it is feasible within the project timeline and budget.

Responsibility to set realistic requirement priorities in collaboration with developers: You should work collaboratively with developers to identify essential 
functionalities and prioritize them accordingly. For example, if you're developing a project management tool, you should prioritize features like 
task management and reporting over less critical features like chat functionality.

Responsibility to review requirements and evaluate prototypes: You need to review requirements as they are developed and provide feedback to ensure that 
they meet your needs. For example, if you're developing a mobile app, you should review user interface mockups and prototype builds to ensure that the 
design and functionality align with your expectations.

Responsibility to establish acceptance criteria: You need to define measurable acceptance criteria that developers can use to judge whether the 
software satisfies your needs. For example, if you're developing an online booking system, you should define acceptance tests that verify the system's 
ability to handle multiple bookings simultaneously, provide accurate pricing information, and send confirmation emails to users.

Responsibility to promptly communicate changes to the requirements: You need to inform the development team promptly if there are any changes to the requirements. 
For example, if you change your mind about a certain feature, you need to let the team know as soon as possible so that they can adjust their plans accordingly.

Responsibility to respect the requirements development process: You need to respect the approach used by business analysts to develop and refine the requirements. 
For example, you should be willing to participate in workshops and interviews to help the BA understand your business needs, 
even if it requires more time and effort on your part.


Creating a culture that respects requirements

Sure, I can explain each point in an easy way with real-life examples:

Lack of developer participation in requirements development: Some developers may not see the value of participating in requirements development. 
For example, a developer working on a billing system might not understand why they need to attend a meeting to discuss how invoices should be generated. 
To help them understand, the business analyst could explain that their input will ensure that the system generates accurate and timely invoices, 
which will save time and reduce errors.

Clash between developers and IT managers: Developers may want detailed input to develop an accounting system, 
while IT managers prefer brainstorming ideas without any specific elicitation techniques. To resolve this conflict, 
the business analyst could facilitate a discussion that combines both approaches. 
For example, the developers could provide input on the technical aspects of the system, 
while the IT manager could provide strategic input on what the system needs to achieve.

Resistance from users to participate in legacy-system replacement projects: Users may not see the relevance of replacing a legacy system to solve their business problems. 
For example, a retail store may resist replacing its old point-of-sale system because it does not see the need for a new one. To overcome this resistance, 
the business analyst could explain how a new system could streamline processes, increase efficiency, and improve customer experience.

Poor previous experiences with requirements processes: Some project team members may have had bad experiences with requirements processes in the past. 
For example, a developer may have worked on a project where the requirements were incomplete, leading to significant rework later in the project. 
To address this, the business analyst could demonstrate the benefits of effective requirements practices, 
such as reducing rework, improving delivery timelines, and enhancing customer satisfaction.

Lack of understanding of the value of requirements practices: Some team members may not appreciate the value of effective requirements practices. 
For example, a developer may not see how reviewing requirements as they evolve will benefit the project. To address this, 
the business analyst could explain how early input from developers can improve the quality of requirements and prevent misunderstandings or rework later in the project.

Lack of involvement from stakeholders: Some stakeholders may not feel involved in the requirements development process. 
For example, a customer may feel that their needs are not being adequately addressed by the requirements documentation. 
To address this, the business analyst could involve the customer in requirements elicitation activities, such as interviews 
or workshops, to ensure that their needs and requirements are reflected in the documentation.

Resistance to culture or process change: Some team members may resist changes to the requirements development process or culture. 
For example, a developer may prefer working in a casual and unstructured environment and resist the introduction of more formal requirements practices. 
To address this, the business analyst could provide education and reassurance on the benefits of effective requirements practices, such as improving delivery 
timelines and reducing rework.

Overall, understanding the reasons for resistance and addressing them through education, reassurance, 
and collaboration can help create a culture that respects requirements and facilitates effective requirements development.


-----> Identifying decision makers


The decision leader makes the choice, either with or without discussion with others - this means that one person is responsible for making the final decision, 
and they can do so with or without input from others. An example of this could be a CEO making a decision on behalf of their company without consulting others.

The group votes and the majority rules - this means that everyone in the group gets a say, and the option with the most votes wins. 
An example could be a group of friends deciding where to go for dinner and agreeing on a restaurant based on the most popular vote.

The group votes, but the result must be unanimous to approve the decision - this means that everyone in the group needs to agree on the decision before it can be made. 
An example could be a family discussing what movie to watch and everyone needing to agree on one option before watching it.

The group discusses and negotiates to reach a consensus - this means that everyone in the group works together to come up with a decision that everyone can 
live with and support. An example could be a team of coworkers discussing the best approach for a project and coming to a compromise that satisfies everyone's concerns.

The decision leader delegates authority for making the decision to one individual - this means that the person in charge assigns responsibility for making the decision to 
someone else. This could be seen in a sports team, where the coach delegates responsibility to the captain to make decisions on the field.

The group reaches a decision, but some individual has veto authority over that decision - this means that even if the group comes to a decision, 
one person has the power to veto it and stop it from being implemented. An example could be a board of directors voting on a new policy, 
but the CEO has veto power and can reject it if they feel it's not in the company's best interest.

It's important to remember that there isn't one right or wrong decision-making rule, and different situations may call for different approaches. 
It's up to the group to decide on the best way to make decisions based on their specific circumstances.


Reaching agreement on requirements

Sure, I can explain the main points of this passage in simpler terms and provide some examples.

The passage is talking about the process of agreeing on what a product needs to be able to do before it is built. 
This agreement involves different groups of people, including customers, developers, testers, and management.

One way that organizations often show they have agreed on these requirements is by having stakeholders "sign off" on them. 
This means they formally approve of the requirements and agree to move forward with building the product based on those requirements.

However, sometimes people don't take the sign-off process seriously. 
For example, a customer representative might sign off on the requirements without actually reading them carefully, 
just because they feel pressured to get the project moving. Or a development manager might use sign-off as an excuse to resist any changes to the requirements later on.

To avoid problems like these, it's important to make sure everyone involved in the sign-off process understands exactly what they are agreeing to. 
They should also understand that requirements will likely change over time as the project progresses. Sign-off should be seen as a milestone, 
not a weapon, and all parties should have a clear understanding of what it means for the project going forward.

For example, let's say a group of people are working on building a new app that helps users find local restaurants. 
The customers might have certain requirements, such as being able to search for restaurants by cuisine type or location. 
The developers might have to make sure those requirements are technically feasible and can be implemented within the time and budget constraints of the project. 
Testers might need to make sure they can verify that the app actually works the way it's supposed to.
And management might want to make sure the app meets certain business goals, such as improving customer retention or increasing revenue.

Once everyone agrees on the requirements, they might sign off on them to indicate their approval. 
However, if the customers later realize they need to add a new requirement, they might have to go through a change request 
process to update the requirements and get everyone's approval again.


The requirements baseline


Sure! This passage is talking about the importance of establishing a baseline for requirements agreement.

A requirements baseline is a set of requirements that has been reviewed and agreed upon by all stakeholders 
involved in the development of a software product or application. It serves as a starting point for further development.

When all parties agree to a particular set of requirements, they should also agree on how changes to those 
requirements will be managed going forward. This could be through a formal process such as change control, 
which ensures that any proposed changes are analyzed for their impact on cost, resources, schedule, and other factors.

This approach helps reduce friction and misunderstandings that can arise during the course of a project. 
It gives everyone involved confidence that they're all on the same page and working towards the same vision.

For example, let's say you're part of a team developing a new mobile app. The customer management/marketing 
team may want to ensure that the app doesn't become too bloated with features and lose its focus. 
The user representatives may want to make sure that the app works well for their target audience, 
even if they didn't think of every requirement before construction began. 
The development management team may want to balance functionality with cost, schedule, and quality. 
The business analysts and project managers may want to manage changes in a way that minimizes chaos. 
And the quality assurance and test teams need to be confident that they can develop effective test scripts and be fully prepared for their activities.

Having an explicit agreement on the requirements baseline helps to forge a collaborative partnership between the customers and developers towards project success.


What if you don’t reach agreement?

This passage is discussing the challenges of achieving sign-off from all stakeholders involved in a software development project. 
Some stakeholders may be difficult to reach, busy, or reluctant to commit for fear of being held accountable later. 
This can lead to analysis paralysis, where progress on the project is stalled due to a lack of agreement on requirements.

One option some teams use is to send out an email saying that if stakeholders don't reply by a certain deadline, 
their silence will be taken as agreement. However, this approach risks straining relationships and doesn't address 
the underlying reasons why stakeholders may be hesitant to commit.

Instead, it's better to move forward cautiously with the assumption that not all stakeholders have approved the requirements. 
It's important to document this fact and the likely impact of missing or incorrect requirements on the project's risk list. 
Follow up with these stakeholders and let them know that while the project is moving forward with the current requirements baseline, 
there is still a process in place to make changes if necessary.

For example, imagine you're working on a project to develop a new accounting software system for a company. 
One of the stakeholders is the head of finance, who is difficult to reach and has concerns about committing to the requirements. 
Rather than forcing a sign-off or assuming tacit approval, you would document the stakeholder's 
hesitations and the potential risks of missing or incorrect requirements related to financial reporting.
You would then follow up with the stakeholder directly and explain that while the project is moving forward with the current requirements baseline, 
there is still a process in place to make changes if necessary. This helps to manage communications and 
maintain positive relationships with all stakeholders while keeping the project moving forward.


Agreeing on requirements on agile projects


This passage is discussing how requirements are handled on agile projects. 
Unlike traditional project management approaches, agile projects do not involve a formal sign-off action. 
Instead, requirements are maintained in the form of user stories in a product backlog. 
The product owner and the team agree on what stories will be developed in the next iteration based on their priority and the team's productivity.

While there is no attempt to achieve stakeholder approval on the full scope of requirements for the project up front, 
the vision and other business requirements do need to be established at the outset. The ultimate "sign-off" on 
agile projects is acceptance of the working, tested software delivered from each iteration.

However, some clients may still request a sign-off even in an agile development life cycle. 
In this case, the BA team can ask the users to "sign off" that, at that moment in time, there were no major requirements missing that they knew about,
 and there were no major issues with what had been written down. 
This approach allows the spirit of agile methods to prevail while keeping open the possibility of changes later on.

In general, it's important to maintain a balance between the rights and responsibilities of all stakeholders involved in a software project. 
It's helpful to identify the customers responsible for providing business and user requirements and discuss the Bill of Rights and Responsibilities
 with them to ensure everyone is on the same page. If necessary, modify these documents as appropriate to reach agreement.

It's also important to learn from past experiences where customer engagement was lacking and quantify the risks associated with that. 
For example, if a lack of customer participation led to late requirements changes or missed business opportunities, 
use that experience to convince others of the importance of customer engagement going forward.

Overall, the goal is to work collaboratively with all stakeholders to ensure the success of the software project.
